Should we talk about some good news real quick? Did you guys see that KDE 5.2.2 popped out today a bug fix release really?
It's a new month of work though
So that's always interesting and some GTK 3 stuff has been cleaned up for those of you who have a mix
Kaywin's got some fixes as well
So there you go and look at the screenshot. It's really coming along
KDE 5.2 is looking sharp. I
Still have a little I still I still find gnome to be a little bit a little bit more high DPI friendly
But I keep trying out the plasma 5 desktop as well
So yeah, if you guys didn't notice the 5.2 to just dropped today
So now we've had a little more a couple more people show up. Did anybody make it to?
Kansas Linux fest this last week
Nobody. I know Tyler made it but Tyler is not here today
He was there rocking some JB swag
but I did see a blog post that I'll link in the show notes that it a roundup of Kansas Linux fest looks like they had
a attendance of about a hundred and thirty folks who signed up through Everbright and
It was the first annual Kansas Linux fest. That's really cool. And I know I noticed you saw this on g-plus 2 Matt
Yeah, I actually thought it was it was a really cool picture and a great with a blog post that I thought was interesting
So I wanted to share that and it looks like it could have been a lot of fun. Yeah, absolutely
so I'll be curious to see how this fest grows and if you're in the area and maybe be interested in going next year check
out the blog post you can also check out open Kansas dot us and Kansas Linux fest dot us and they have a
IRC channel on free node pound open, Kansas
But that Kansas Linux fest us looks like it's the domain of the of the fest
But it wasn't loading at the time of the show right now
So I don't know if it's down or what but yeah, I think Kansas Linux fest, you know, it's early
I wouldn't say it's one we're gonna go to yet
But it's exciting to see another one pop up and watch it go
So we'll keep an eye on it and maybe in the future. Oh, look at that their site just loaded and maybe in the future
We'll have a viewer stop by and give us a report on how it went. In fact, if you ever go to an event
You know like anything in your area. That's a Linux II or open source event. I want to come back and give us a report
We'd love to hear it. We're trying to give more exposure to this kind of stuff
They're really neat, especially the stuff. We don't get a chance to go to that's across the pond
That's stuff that we really love to hear about because that makes me really jealous. I get really jealous man. I just want to fly. Exactly.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's powered by steak and eggs. My name is Chris and my name is Matt
Hey there Matt. I I went to the little restaurant the mom-and-pop restaurant by the studio called Ellie's and
It they nobody nobody makes a better breakfast sirloin than than Ellie's Matt. I mean it is just so good
So today I'm protein. I'm fired up. I'm ready to go to solve some problems in today's episode
episode 85 is all is gonna be
It's gonna be a little naval gazing a little reflective a little sausage factory this week. Why?
Well, we do have some really great feedback to get to including a make good that I think is definitely important
We make a correction on
And then if I can be selfish, I don't think I've really ever done this before
I want to spend part of the show today
Discussing buying my son his first official Linux laptop for his sixth birthday that comes up later in April. He right now
he's on like a tablet I've had him on a Chromebook and
He's really just kind of getting frustrated with some of the games and stuff
I just want to get him a nicer computer
But where do you start with something like this something that's not a lot of money something that's rugged
But something that'll be a good Linux experience and I'm thinking maybe a laptop maybe a desktop maybe a NUC
So I'll discuss it with the mumble room and Matt and we'll maybe we'll all walk away with a good idea of what would make a good
starters Linux computer
Excellent. Yeah, and maybe specifically for kids maybe not but we'll do that coming up later on in the show
Also, we're gonna just discuss a little bit of our coverage of distributions and see if we should make some adjustments if we've given too
Much attention to some distributions. So it's like I said a little navel-gazing
But I hope at the end of that discussion
We'll not only kind of have an idea of what what we cover and why we cover it and maybe what we could change
But maybe we'll walk away with a little bit of a mutual
Understanding of the distributions we think are most relevant today. We'll see that's a little ambitious
I don't know if we'll get that far
Something to try but before we start let's bring in our mumble room because they're here today fired up to help us get through everything time
Appropriate greetings mumble room I'm glad yeah
Because our first email I wanted to discuss with you all this whole secure boot hoopla
We talked about it on this week's Linux action show, but I wanted to get it from the folks, too
So Liam writes in to kick off the conversation about alt OS lockout as he calls it. I'm very new to Linux
He says I'm interested in finding out a solution to a potential alternative OS lockout
It's been years since I built my own PC
I'm not very technical to begin with if this is eventually implemented
How would someone like me install Linux on a laptop would this make it harder for system 76 or people like system 76 to deal?
With this and of course he links us to this this ours technica article about Windows 10 making secure boot
More of a reality by telling vendors they no longer have to leave an option to turn it off
And Matt I wanted to just kind of start here. You've been around for a while
You've seen Microsoft at their where the best and their worst literally and figuratively
do you suppose this is Microsoft's sneaky way to try to
Lock down what used to be the open PC market to make it a Windows market or is this an overreaction by the tech press?
it's well, it's the end result is that it could end up being a
Situation to where there's some lockdown is it intentional. I don't think honestly they care
I mean they do and they don't but I think they realize that you know
They're actually setting themselves up for trouble say like perhaps in the EU where you know
They've been known to be dragged through the antitrust suit woods a few times
I don't think it's intentional, but I think that it's one of those things to where they see it as an opportunity
I think they like to kind of set it up. They know it's gonna they know what they know what it does
They know it's gonna happen, but I don't think that was the purposeful reasoning behind it
I think it was just kind of a happenstance, but I'm sure they're they're not gonna lose any sleep over it
I'll I'll I'll tip it over to the mumble room then and maybe I'll bounce it to wimpy first
It's just kind of coming in from a distro developer standpoint and to somebody who's been working really hard on
power PC
Hardware where they have their own unique kind of firmware something very different that makes it a challenge to work with us specifically
It's not designed to lock you out
But it is very different and so wimpy win in that
Context when you look at secure boot and you make it you look at making what is a fairly open platform the x86 platform as far
as installing
Operating systems goes when you'll make it when you look at something that could make that harder
Does it give you pause does it give you concern?
It does. Yes
this feels like the
extinguish in the three E's
Frankly, doesn't it? Yeah, the extended embrace or embrace love Linux so much
They're gonna like I'm gonna try and cut us off
It's interesting the secure boot stuff in principle. It's a good idea
But
Yes, if you make it more difficult for people that have bought their commodity hardware to install Linux then that is is going
to have an effect on
Linux adoption and you know when you look at the server space, there's almost no secure boot or
EFI
Systems in the server space it's all traditional BIOS
Yeah, because frankly just about every server that anyone set or sells ends up running Linux these days
So why would you put those things on that platform that make it harder and more cumbersome to work with?
So yes, I have looked at this Microsoft announcement and it does give me cause for concern
I think that this is potentially damaging and we'll just have to see how things play out
Because the other thing of course is is that there are distributions that even now can't do secure boot
Correct, right and that the big players all can and with if this feature becomes, you know mandated
Then I think what you're going to find is there's not going to be so many boutique distros anymore
You know, you may actually see the Linux
distro choice
Sort of collapse a little bit around the major distributions
Yes, because now this is assuming this takes off and we are in a place where the majority of the marketplace now has this technology
in place
And so if you accept those two factors and you accept that could happen which would really only take time
Really? It's the only thing you just have to go out a few years
Yeah, wouldn't it make it extremely harder for a small startup distribution perhaps someone even the size of Ubuntu Mate?
From getting like this signed key and is there is there challenges and hurdles there? How would that work? I
I to be honest with you. All I know is that as an Ubuntu flavor
I benefit from the work that Ubuntu have done
Partnering with Microsoft to get the signing keys so that they can have signed kernels
And I just get that for free as a you know derivative first as an official
But we certainly know that not everybody gets that advantage
No, exactly. So
And that you know that could you know stifle some some innovation because you know
If you look at distributions like evolve OS with their budget desktop
They've they're not doing secure boot at the moment. It's something that they're planning to add
But then they've got you know, if they have additional hurdles to jump through they may struggle in the in the new
You know the new world order. Let's assume worst-case scenario in actually getting you know their kernel
Signed so that it can operate in this environment and that would be a shame because you know
They're doing interesting work and lots of people get to benefit and get inspired by what some of these other distributions do
So, you know, I look to some of the the more
Design centric distributions to get some ideas and things and if they're not there then it makes that you know
The Linux ecosystem all that more bland and uninteresting right be a real show
It would slow down the pace of innovation. Let's get a coat. Hi. I also tie a cool high
I call to he a coffee. Oh, okay
Well, I'm just gonna say that
There's not really much that they're gonna do
the reason why I'm saying that is because
There are plenty of people that have already invested in having Linux run into their daily lives
Especially on like the business side
so when you try to set up servers or try to set up a
Consumer products with secure boot. They still need to put it in an option to get rid of secure boot if needed because it would be
Kind of like a anti-competing
Kind of thing especially like monopoly loss in that scenario
Couldn't you see like anything above a certain price point in most cases would have that menu flip
But machines like the stream PC that you're seeing from HP right now. That's $200 that ships with Windows 8 one with Bing
No, the reason why I say that is because there's plenty of startups that need to have a low budget and
Forcing people to choose Microsoft it would be you know
That would just not go through. I don't see it. Oh, I don't know
They they're not forcing you to do anything if you want a $200 stream PC
Then you get one that's subsidized by Microsoft because Microsoft has helped subsidizing that cost if you want to spend more money
Cost if you want to spend more than $200 and want something that's not locked down. That's fine
That's your choice. You can go get something else and it's not much different than what Google does with the Chromebooks
It's not impossible to put Linux on there
But you know
It's not really what Google wants you to do and they're slowly taking steps to make to lock that down a little bit more
At a time I I I'll go to Colton go ahead Colton DRG. You wanted to add something in there
Yeah, I I just the whole
EFI thing ever since you know, we started seeing it in the in the consumer PC market
it's kind of been something that I am I don't know if I want to say I'm
Kind of like I just I don't
it's it's kind of scared me a little bit almost just because
just the way it it works with the operating system to lock everything down and
So like when I got my new computer the first thing I did or when I got when I built my new computer the first
Thing I did is I went into the motherboard settings and I turned EFI office
I would just rather deal with legacy bios. Yeah, not have to think about the EFI thing
Yeah, I've also done that as well because you know what honestly it just makes it easier for me
I actually curious wimpy to hear about your perspective working with OEMs
Yeah, so um in the not-too-distant future Ubuntu Malta will be available
pre-installed on a range of
OEM hardware and if you look at
Distributions like Linux Mint and black lab they've already they've already got a history of working with OEMs as a means of you know
shipping their distributions
pre-installed on hardware to sidestep some of this complexity true and I think
I think all the distributions are going to have to have some sort of
Hardware vendor
Agreement Wow, because it may well get harder and harder to you know, do home hacking
Solutions and if there's enough distributions working with OEMs
with Linux friendly hardware
then
it might be that the the
Barrier-to-entry is the cost of buying a computer that's ready to run Linux. I do that. That scares me a lot, you know
And I I don't we don't know what's gonna happen
But I think it's so important what could happen that it might be a little bit worth worrying about right now because what we are
talking about fundamentally is
You know I grew up and got the exposure to all of the technology and all the different operating systems
I did because I wasn't restricted growing up playing with things
So, you know, I would do things like run DOS for a little while then I would retry BIOS for a little while
And then I would try some sort of crazy other operating system
Then I would try the Mac for a little while and be like, oh really I can't really do a lot with this
This isn't as much fun
Let me go try this other platform that lets me do the things I want so I can learn more and it would keep
Drawing me back to the PC platform over the Mac every single time. So I
I fear that this kind of transition would fundamentally limit the
Potential exploration the future generations could do that scares me a little bit. Well, yeah
So so if I have to buy a machine first, it's already pre-loaded for me. That's not yeah, that's a great solution for grandma
I agree and it's good. I'm really excited for you. I'm not putting it down
But what I'm saying is that kind of leaves me a little sad
So a couple of things it's all been a bit dreary and gloomy
But if you've bought yourself a computer pre-installed with Linux, then that may be a good solution
pre-installed with Linux then that means it's capable of being installed with any
You know flavor distribution of Linux, so that's that's good
But I think what's going to happen is if the PC gets locked down
Fine, maybe it's time to kiss the PC era goodbye and let Microsoft have it because these ARM devices
Are kicking on time after time. We've got the 64-bit ARM CPUs now
Things like the Raspberry Pi 2 and the Odroid c1 whilst not powerhouses are very low cost
Entry devices that you can run a range of operating systems on and they could well be the platforms that the next generation
Experiment with and tinker on and there are maybe and maybe you know our Linux future is on these
I cross my mind as well. You might be very right. All right, let's give heaven's revenge a chance to talk me down
Go ahead heavens
You guys are really over exaggerating this as you can sell
And you can boot it anyway, even with secure boot enabled as long as you it's even if they try to put secure keys in
The firmware do you think they're gonna keep us out of it? We can just sign it with those keys
Sure, it's very easy to probe hardware. I kind of though I kind of feel like even so this is a
Most things for secure boot is good one
It keeps that nasty little NSA that all of you always care and worry about out by keeping the secure
Oh, I disagree with that. No, that's not gonna keep them from squat
The company does it and they have their own self-created images
And it can just give more determinism to the whole system. Oh
secure well, I agree with that part you were right here a lot of stability and it's almost like core OS for
Yourself instead of just for the corporate environment
Colonel in it. Did you want to jump in? Did you have something? Do you wanted to respond there because I have
Yeah, I mean essentially basically we've lived without secure boot for the last 20-some years. Nothing bad's ever happened
I just I feel like it is a solution to a problem that never really existed
Well, I mean there are they are trying to do it more than they're trying to apply the problem to way more than it
Ever needs to know. Let me back out. So what heavens I what I what I fundamentally disagree with is your premise that it's not that
Hard to get around you know, you can self-sign etc. Etc. It's kind of like it's easy. Well, I
That's kind of like saying it's kind of like saying well, well Linux doesn't support my wireless card
But if I patch and rebuild my kernel, it works. No problem. It's really easy
Yes, it is very easy to do that. But to tell somebody who is learning Linux for the first time
Oh, yeah, you could totally load Linux on your rig
You just have to have a self-signed certificate first that is gonna blow their brain off, you know
They're not gonna have any idea what to do with that. Yeah, it'll definitely
Prevent new adoption from people who don't know that's what I'm fundamentally worried about is I'm worried about that user who buys a PC
Running Windows says this isn't good enough. I want something better. Here's about this Linux thing this Ubuntu thing
Whatever goes to install it and can't
Well, this thing is actually scriptable
All you need to do is run a simple script because it's all automatable
Even though it would be a single step before installing the secure boot to kernel. It would be just one step
It wouldn't be that much of a hard situation to like learn some command-line options or yeah installing packages
It's just an extra step that is an inconvenience and I'm not obviously the I was just making who me
I was just making a comparison like a lot of times we say things are easy to us
But they're that's not necessarily means they're easy to everybody else and it's but it's not like a little difference though
It's like a fundamentally they can't there's not an option for them
Well, and that's something I wanted to touch on a little bit
There was a time that I actually used to do
Various screencasts and things like that showing people how to install Linux because it was you know
For the most part bios was pretty unified. It was pretty stupid easy to do nowadays
I gave it up why because every single solitary implementation of secure boot is friggin different on every friggin computer
I can't what I'm looking at may not be the same as the other guys looking at
I mean Asus has got their thing and the other guys got their thing, you know, it's already a huge hurdle
And now we're adding an additional thing to it. Honestly, I'm kind of to the point to where great now
We're forcing people to buy computers supporting an operating system that supports us
Fantastic. I'm on board. Yeah
I'm to that point now without a frustration. I'm down with wimpy
It's like I think it's a $25 raspberry pies and $35 are you know, all these all these, you know, sub $100 boards
$150 boards. It's really gonna be where people experiment
So that gives me some hope and as far as the charitable case as to where they're not able to afford a new computer
There are and increasingly more of them
Organizations out there that will help you get refurbished of hardware and I guess you know, there are solutions what I wanted to say is I
And I okay Colonel X I agree. It's not a MacBook Pro but for experimentation and learning purposes it works
But I guess here's the point I wanted to end on is really what this tells me
Is that if we really care about this then?
I we as users should probably begin looking into the free BIOSes and figure out what which one we want to back
You know this core boot and all these other ones that are out there that are like
I forget what ships on these a core boot that ships on the Chromebooks
You guys remember?
Yeah, there's there's different
We this is an alternative and maybe if there's a way we could get it to a point where we could I don't know
With scare but if you'd be possible to replace the firmwares, but if we can continue to drive that forward that might also be a solution for us
It's not perfect yet, but it's it's out there in the wild. It's shipping. So yeah
To start there's so so, you know what they always say when Microsoft closes the door
Open-source always opens a window. Wait a minute. Is that not sure? That's the right thing usually with a crowbar. Yes
Hey now, let's take a minute here and talk about DigitalOcean because they rock and they're a sponsor of the Linux unplugged show
Go over to DigitalOcean and check them out and bring our promo code of power with you
That's do unplugged do unplugged one word lowercase. I'll get you a $10 credit over DigitalOcean
Now why my friends would you want a $10 credit?
I'll tell you why it's like magic in your pocket, but in the cloud and not in your pocket at all
They're a simple cloud hosting provider dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way to spin up your own cloud server
You can get started in less than 55 seconds and pricing plans start
$5.00 a month $5.00 $5.00. You know what? I I
I
Spend more on apples when I go get apples now like not not computers
I mean like the red ones that you eat
Alright, like it is so crazy that I can do this for $5.00 a month. It blows my brain organ all over the wall here
It's all over the soundproofing them and in 55 seconds, you're gonna get that thing up and spinning. It's crazy, right?
You're gonna get 512 megabytes of RAM a 20 gigabyte SSD one terabyte of transfer. Did you hear me say SSD?
Cuz they're all SSDs. I
Think I need to I gotta say that again. They're all SSDs. Now. Why is that matter?
Well, you see back in my day if you wanted really good performance and you want to have like a database and your website all
On one array you would be crazy to have that on a single drive
It just wouldn't work unless unless you didn't have very much traffic, which that's kind of sad
But if you had some traffic you needed to have that on a storage array
You're probably gonna have that either fiber attached or scuzzy attached or god forbid
Maybe I scuzzy if you've got a separate network with its own dedicated gigabit switch and this is serious money for one of these sands
That's crazy
and when you're doing
Koala hosting things like that it drives the cost up way more because then you also have to pay for that to be in the
Rag when DigitalOcean came along there
They looked at all of the technologies like Linux and KVM and the best web standards the best Linux
Distributions and of course the best storage IO and that's SSDs
That's why they're SSDs throughout the entire infrastructure you combine that with their incredible bandwidth of their tier 1 data centers and it freaking rocks
They've got data center locations in New York, San Francisco, Singapore, Amsterdam and London
And they do a lot of mirroring to make things faster for like some of the repo updates
It's just it's crazy great service you combine that with their amazing simple and intuitive control panel
Which you can replicate the functionality of that control panel on a larger scale with their API
There's tons of great apps around the API. It's amazing how freaking productive how much you can get done
How much infrastructure is at your fingertips for such a low price point all of that in one place?
Powered by Linux and you can try it out for two months for free when you use our promo code do
Unplugged do unplug to get you a $10 credit. It's route the $5 rig two months for free go put core OS on there
Or go put Ubuntu 1404 on there try something out for a while with a good long-term support do the updates
Deploy own cloud try out their one-click installations for things like git lab
It's a really awesome service and it's perfect for our audience
Digital ocean comm and use the promo code do unplugged when you check out and a big thank you to digital ocean
Go have some fun guys, and I love also hearing about what you use them for so keep sending those into the show as well
Sometimes gives me ideas. I think it's you know for me. It's the limitless possibilities that you can use it for
It's like here the other day
I wanted to see if I I did a long time ago
I did an article on Moodle and I wanted to see you know what that would look like on running on digital ocean
It was stupid easy. It's just and and how fast it is when you're running your updates and stuff
It's crazy, and you know they just put out a really great tutorial
I'll link it in the show notes about how to resize your digital ocean droplets
Really nice which I had to do kind of recently for my own cloud one because I've been putting stuff in on cloud
So yes, yes check it out. Hey, okay. Let's do a correction on the sync thing thing
we've talked about sync thing a lot and
We got a couple emails about that
So he says I want to drop you a line to correct an error
I've heard repeated multiple times on Linux unplugged and the Linux action show
I think sync thing is not that hard to manage anymore
People keep saying the key exchange becomes unmanageable behind a beyond a couple of devices this may have been true a while ago
But they've added a feature to address that exact problem starting in version
0.9.18 which I think I tracked that back to September. Oh, yeah, that's what he says. It's called intrude
Oh, I'm sorry
Introducer node interdruser node and you can read about it here long story short
It makes it so you only have to do do you only have to do the key exchange with one central node and the new
Clients will get the keys for all your other nodes
I personally have sync thing set up for seven nodes and key management has been a breeze thanks to using introducer node
So to kind of maybe help you understand if you're not totally familiar sync thing
unlike
Other sync products the way you kind of add devices to sync thing is they kind of they find out about each other and then
You put them within each other's. That's what to put it, but you know blessed areas. I am losing
So long, but you you kind of say yes, this one's allowed to sync with me. Yes
This one's approved to sync with me. They're both approved with each other and then they start sinking he's saying
That they introduced this feature called introducer node and wimpy
I'm not sure if you've ever looked into this but this introducer node feature kind of automates the handing out of future
Clients and so they talked to this introducer node and it automatically adds them to the sync pool
Yeah, I I imagine it is probably the same person that sent you this email contacted me in the week and told me about it
And I haven't installed it or tested it, but I have read about it and it does seem to solve
the problem that I have
Misspoken about so I'm I feel like an a chump now
Yeah, it looks like something have created a solution
Yeah, that could be really positive, right? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, so I'm gonna look at sync thing
More closely again now. Yeah, I I think I will too and of course the last time I looked at it
I guess was before September. I can't really remember last time I looked at it
I thought I've looked at it more recently than that, but I didn't look for the introducer node feature
That's for I didn't know to go specifically look for that. I will say right here if that works
Very excited about that because I very much would like to use sync thing because everybody wants me to use sync thing
For one thing, but I also like that's top to bottom open source all of that jazz
So thank you very much for sending that in
I'll play with that some more and maybe wimpy if you play with it and let us know too
That'd be really cool
And I have a link in the show notes if you're curious about how that works
Because it looks like it makes distributing files via sync thing to a larger audience much easier
I'm still a little skeptical about how well that's gonna scale and
Also, what happens if my introducer nodes offline and things like that, but you know what?
I could see like setting up the main node here at the studio and then the introducer node up like on a DigitalOcean droplet
There you go, right and then just let that run 24-7 and hand out the keys
Same to me. Yeah, like current Linux exactly. Yeah, same thing when my own cloud server goes down, which doesn't really ever happen. I
Live in I live in 2015. I use Linux so
Doesn't really go down unless I break it that's when it goes down
I tease V to T to the Z to the V to the I writes in
With one more bit torrent sync kind of follow-up thing or another sync thing follow-up thing
He says I've been a JB fan since some time in 2009 Apollo last lupin tech snap religiously
Just a quick
Thank you to Chris and wimpy for bringing up the bit torrent sync issues and suggesting C file
It gave me the push to make the switch
My setup has an interesting twist and that I couldn't actually host the data on my do droplet due to the size and well the cost
That would be there. So I have the front end on do which is this is exactly something
I've thought about doing and then the back end low on a local server connected via SSH tunnels and SSH FS
He documented his work at TSP ITC calm and all the link in his you can find a link in his email in the show notes
I recently got a job offer from Rackspace and I can definitely tribute everything I learned to you guys. Oh, oh that buddy decline the job
Oh
Wow, that's really good for good problem to have yeah, so there you go. I hope that makes you feel better
To T to the Z to the V to the I a longtime listener is loving C file. Do you feel better?
Yeah, I don't feel like such a chump anymore. Good. Good. Good. I
Have not yet played with C file either, but yeah, I'm now I just don't know what to do. I'm totally totally for club
Alright, so let's do a super quick Linux fest Northwest update
I know those a lot of you aren't going don't care, but I'm just really excited. This is like my full-time job right now
It's ridiculous how much time this is taking but we're in a really good spot. It's really paying off
We've got obviously the shirt going on right now teespring.com slash Linux it hit its goal
And I think there's still five days left to get a black and white or a red more blue and white or whatever
It's it's so sharp
Linux action show hoodie
T-shirt ladies T kids T teespring.com slash Linux the funds raised there are helping our Linux fest
Northwest efforts and standing at right now. I believe mr. Q 5 sis his ticket has been purchased
I think rotten corpse you're close. Are you rotten are you in here? No, no
Chris Moore is locked in Alan Jude is locked in
I think Michael Dominic is locked in now
I haven't gotten the confirmation, but I talked to him on Monday. It sounds like he's locked in
So we're gonna have a lot of people out
Is there are we missing anybody? I don't think I don't think we're missing anybody. I think we're gonna have everybody there of course
Yes, yes. Well. Yeah, of course I didn't mention us because we're in Washington, but of course exactly yeah for us
It's like a drive right no isn't no it's gonna be there as well Matt's gonna be there
I'm gonna be there Chase is gonna be there all of us local guys will be there and Noah's gonna fly in so
It's gonna be all of us in one place for the first time ever
Which is really awesome. That's really cool, and so we're gonna get some great local recordings
We're gonna do some interviews at the Linux fest guys have
Volunteered a dedicated room for us to do interviews in so we can get some good evergreen content for a lot of our shows
In-person interviews we're gonna try to do in-person shows as much as we can and of course
We're gonna have a lot going on Friday and Saturday nights
We're gonna we're gonna just go down and hang out with the Linux fest after-party Saturday night
It's so if you'd like to hang out with the crew and just in a more relaxed setting that's definitely the place to do it
Or come to the fest and say hi to us
And we're gonna have two days of streaming if you can't make it at jblive.tv, and it's April 25th and 26th
You can probably tell I'm pretty excited. It's gonna be really cool, and it's taking a lot of work, but
We're gonna have it's if you can make it
It's totally gonna be worth coming and see us because we're gonna have the best stuff to give away at all the booths
Well everyone that shows up always has a really great time
I mean, it's you know well except for that you that one year
I mean that was that's a different situation, but yeah, I mean for the most part
It's been really really cool, and it's always neat to see the people and kind of assign them
You know it's like oh, yeah, I know your chat room handle
oh, yeah, well yeah, it's like our royal Gabe, and I just had a great exchange this morning about about email and
Now when he comes to Linux fest Northwest he can give me a hard time in person
And I'll be able to immediately remember the whole exchange and we'll have a nice laugh, and I'll feel like a jerk
Linux fest Northwest org if you want to pre-register and but the hotels are filling up and stuff like that. Oh, yeah
I'm super excited
Yeah, and Odyssey Westra Odyssey. I hope you could make it too. I mean I know it's a bit of a drive for you
But you can I think he is at least that was what I heard last time. I heard from him
I think soft to check wimpy. It'd be really great if you go
I know it's impossible, but it'd be really great if you'd make it transport technology would solve this issue
Yeah, I I was looking into it to be honest. I really did want to
Find a way yeah, yeah, it's just crazy. It's I know
All right, what we need is like one of those telepresence robots that you could just like a Skype into
All right, it's a gypsy robot yeah, there you go. Yeah, gypsy into exactly yeah, well, I would assume it would run Linux so
Yeah, all right. Well, that's probably enough about Linux fest Northwest
I'm just crazy excited about it, and we'll have clips and stuff in the shows
But we we got to solve a few problems for me. I got I tell you what Matt. I have I have reached the point
Where it is time to replace?
Maybe introduce the most important Linux computer of my lifetime
But before we get to that I got a thank-ting, and I really mean I've got to thank ting ting
Thank you. Thank you for saving me so much money over the last two years
Thank you for challenging the duopoly of the mobile industry and ting. Thank you. Thank you so much for actually having
The will to fight that fight because I I tell you it wears on me
It does wear on me and ting the reason they make a difference is
They're challenging sort of the status quo, and they're just by doing it in just the most direct and honest way possible
It's no contracts. No early termination fees for ting service. They're out there a mobile service that truly makes sense
They have CDMA and GSM coverage available, so definitely check out their coverage map. There's just a flat rate for your phone
It's six dollars a month for the phone line
And then you just buy your phone
And you just put it on the account so the phones are unlocked because you own the phone outright you just put it on
The ting service six dollars a month, and then it's just your usage on top of that
It is as basically as bare and raw just like you own the whole process if you want or you can work hand-in-hand with their
No-hold customer service, and that's what I like about it is you know I've got the Nexus 5
I just put lollipop 5.1 on there. I put the ting GSM sim in there. I'm doing this all on my own
I'm not talking to anybody because they have an incredible website that walks me through all of their services
It walks me through all of this stuff, and now I have
unbelievable speeds unbelievable I
Chases house a hundred and six megabits a second download on the GSM service a hundred and six megabits on the GSM service
Unbelievable speeds, I don't even know how like I I
Mean I'm gonna have to retest it. It's so incredible because like at my house. I'm getting like 25 megabits
I'm then I'm like that's great. I'm getting 25 megabits. Yeah, buddy, but it chases like what so anyways
I've had incredible performance even like in the spots where I've had low performance. It's
It's been improved. It is really great regardless of what my speeds are I am super thrilled because I'm only paying for what I use
And things dashboard lets me manage all of that
And I actually have used our Android app to send me a push alert if I go over like two gigs which that's just so
I know and you can really kind of play around with it and see kind of what you would pay by going over to
Linux.ting.com that'll take $25 off your first device click on their savings calculator
plug your current usage information in there and see how much you would save over like a two-year contract period and
Then keep in mind to the ting has early termination relief programs to help you get out of a contract if you're in one now
As these devices become more and more important to me
And I have more and more things that I do with my head device so like with my Nexus 5 for example
It does sort of personal things for me. It tracks my sleep including like recording my noises. I make at night. Hello
It talks to my car right and it tracks everywhere
I drive using automatic and if then then that and logs that to spreadsheets
It has become a very personal computer device to me that has things on it that nothing else holds and to me
As I think more about how the technology I ref I use
Reflects on me as a person just like that article Dan Gilmour wrote and why he switched to Linux from Windows
Ting plays a role in that for me, too
And that's why I say thank you to ting go to linux.ting.com take
$25 off your first ting device or go get a ting sim card to give you a $25 service credit that will probably pay for
More than your first month and now when you're on ting you can do CDMA or GSM and think about the flexibility that gives you
And don't forget every ting plan includes hotspot and tethering that could be really wicked
Or you can just get a GSM sim and pop it in like an old tablet or a security device during the pre-show
I got somebody told me you know I just had a I had a Nexus 7 tablet that I wasn't using the GSM sim
And so I've got a ting one for $9 and now when I use the data. I have it linux.ting.com
big thanks to ting
You know you think back to the early days of cellular and how you were just excited if you actually got coverage in your area
And then you think about what you do with your smartphone through ting nowadays
I mean and you hold that in like a comparison. It's just mind-blowing yeah. Yeah, it really is it's it's a new era
I mean, it is really not to make it sound old, but it
Is
Speaking of the early days. I think it used to be easier to buy a computer for kids than it is today
Oh, yeah, I was looking around and I don't okay, so I my son Dylan his birthday is coming up
it's a 20 days away as from when we record this episode of Linux unplugged and
Here's here's what I'm doing right man
I'm I'm shucking and jiving because the conversation comes up Dylan's got an iPad and his iPads kind of old
right
Okay
So that seems pretty it's like okay. That's a matter of fact. There's no debating. I know Angela suggests
Maybe we want to buy a new iPad for him
I think yes, well
Maybe I would like to buy a new iPad and I think I could I be okay with buying another iPad for my son
I think to myself right yeah, I can I can I can do that
You can start like that I don't need to and I thought about it some more and I thought about some more and I thought
No, I'm I'm actually not really okay with that
I mean, I don't have any judgments out there if you want to buy one. That's fine me personally
I just I didn't want to do that plus
Plus my son has been enjoying using an actual computer more than the tablet these days including playing Minecraft on the computer
So I thought I said to myself I said self
This is your opportunity to strike. This is the moment. This is where you leap in the iPads got to be replaced
I get him on Linux. He wants to use a desktop machine. He's got a dedicated minecraft rig
But it's all about the execution. It's got to be the price point. It's got to be durable and preferably portable
Okay portability so thing okay, okay, so this is this is where I and and and to be honest with you
I would like it to be preloaded with Linux so that way I'm supporting the Linux vendor
Right right these are my requirements now
I've looked at a lot of rigs. There's a lot of ways
I could go base requirements is I think I'd like it to be able to play minecraft
So let's just say an Intel HD 5000 or better. Don't you think?
Yeah, you definitely want to be future-proof and that's you know
That's we're actually reasonably spec'd for not just future-proofing but again for minecraft and things of that
I don't think these requirements are too far out for probably a lot of dads and moms that are kind of like you know
What my kid could use a computer and I could see this six is maybe a little young
But I could see ranges, you know
I could see a wide range that of ages this would apply to so I just but I don't know where to begin
Boy, you know, I what do you think Matt? What what you had, you know, you're taking care of your nephew for a while
What was he using right? Well, so we yeah
We actually used to we actually used an old laptop that I had it was a I had it installed
I think it was running one of the arch variants and I basically set it up to where first of all open DNS all day long
Especially as they get older
Because your parental controls all the other like software solutions regardless of platform or crap
I'm a big big firm believer of open DNS because it actually works
So you do that at the router level as far as the computer itself?
He didn't really do much in the way of gaming on that particular rig outside of emulation
He did some emulator games was perfectly happy with it plugged a controller and it was pretty straightforward
He actually was figuring stuff out pretty quickly on his own
And never used to Linux previous to that and actually now prefers it. Hmm
So, you know as far as going forward with what your needs are though
I think you're really wanting to definitely think long as far as future-proofing
So I definitely don't want to buy one in for a few years. Yeah, right. So you really want to future-proof that out
Yeah, I'd like portables. I'd like something maybe you could bring to the studio with him
But it doesn't have to be
And also what what level of gaming would he be doing on that too?
Like what you know, are you okay with something that's integrated even as you know, the technology continues to progress
You know, I'm thinking gaming is not a huge. I'm thinking minecraft and stuff. I don't really
I look at something that would be for a first user's experience
I want something that like it's gonna be really easy to reload if he messes it up
So that way, you know that the reload process is quick
Yeah, I don't know I wouldn't be I noticed you mentioned maybe to get two computers. Is that what you said?
Yeah
My other comment was his don't get a tablet
And the reason I think that is because I think if you give a child a tablet they become
consumers of
Content and games. Yeah, and that's what they're limited to they're never going to challenge themselves to be producers of anything
So I think if you want to use this as an educational tool, it has to be a computer
Right, I agree and I think that you know, if you want a proper computer, you know
A laptop of some sort then that's fine
You know a computer that you can sit down at and get stuff done and maybe in a couple of years is
Suitable for playing some games on that's also good because kids do want to play games on their stuff
but the second computer that you absolutely should get is a Raspberry Pi 2 and
get a couple of micro SD cards set them both up and
keep one spare so when he
Experiments and screws it up. You can just swap in the
Second SD card and he can be up and running again. That is that is the nice prepare the second one
that's and a Raspberry Pi 2 in a case is
Mobile, you know
He can just take that to wherever he needs to go and he can plug it into keyboards mice and monitors
Where wherever he goes and he can run Minecraft on it Colonel Linux you have a different take
Hmm. Yeah. Well, my thought is if your son is anything like my son
He's going to some degree to some degree expect it to work out of the box, right?
And so I feel I completely agree with where wimpy is coming from and I hope I can only pray that my kid when he gets
Older wants to actually play with the internals of the computer
But at the moment he's not really interested in doing that. He's just interested in in in accomplishing a task
He wants to go to YouTube. He wants to watch his videos
He wants to play his games and I would be somewhat I would be somewhat afraid that right the Raspberry Pi
Didn't provide the experience. He was looking for he would not only write off the Raspberry Pi, but he would write off Linux
So that was my thought to my thought was the first computer is this is a computer that's fun
You can do it like there's nothing weird about this computer
Just just use it like a normal computer make using Linux the norm nothing different about it
And then as he starts to experiment, I love the idea of swapping in pies
As sort of like the the computer where if something goes wrong, it's just an SD card swap away
And also if you've got the first computer, which is a Linux computer and it's a you know
A proper desktop computer that can be used
He can teach himself how he makes his SD card images and how he downloads the different
You know versions that are available for the Raspberry Pi to experiment with you know
This is why you want two SD cards. So the Raspberry Pi is there for
experimentation and learning and you know if if he gets really
Interested and he totally fries it then. Okay, you're down $35 and you buy another one
Yeah, you know that that's that's what they're they're really good for do and it's how I'm it's how I'm doing things at home
The Raspberry Pi for you know, poking prodding putting fingers in sticky sweets all that sort of thing and
Proper computers for you know showing how to do, you know more
compute orientated things
Colton you had a question you want to bounce off me
Yeah, I think one thing that's
That in my it would be important for me at least if I was going into a situation like this is what?
You know, how much am I really willing to spend?
Yes. Yes, right. That is a big component. Thank you
I can't believe that really has been brought up until this point because it is a huge component. It's not a lot
You know, I mean we the original budget was like maybe a Nexus 9 kind of area was kind of what we were thinking. So
Right, so you're going from there then, you know, how much like like, you know
If you want to go with a laptop then then are you gonna be able to find a laptop?
That's in that price range. It's gonna do enough to you know, keep them busy. Right?
Yeah, a coffee you had a point to make a
Caught a cote a cottage. Yeah, I I just think that uh, I
Just think that
You know, what do you look at costs? I mean it's cheaper to go with the desktop and
You know later on you can actually build out from that by like
Allowing them to open up at the desktop and just kind of see what parts what yeah
I think I mean, that's how I started when I was a kid. Yeah. Yeah, it is funny
I'll open it up and play around I'm surprised though. I mean like what how come nobody's really recommended the NUC
Seems like or the meerkat from from system 76. It seems like a decent rig. All right, I'll tell you there is one machine
I'm holding all my I'm not I haven't put all my cards on the table. I do have one machine in mind
This is not a plug
But I did notice that system 76
4 days ago on their Google Plus page. So they have a Lemure 14-inch coming in early April
I'm not like super stoked about the resolution 1366 by 768, but then again
He's not gonna care and if it's Intel six, yeah Intel graphics, you know
That might be better for Intel graphics to be honest with you
And it's so it's it's a lot like the ultra Pro the galagal ultra Pro but bigger
So here's the other 14.1 inch screen, so I and this starts at $599 so this might be the way to go
Well, and here's the other component is oh now you going back to your iPad. I'm gonna wager
You've got Otterbox like protection around. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. What's your what's your protection plan for a laptop?
They don't make Otterboxes of those that I know of it. I yeah responsibility
Yeah, and that's it's a big one
I mean like my nephew who now he's 18 now
But when he was 17, it's like that laptop was I mean, yeah, I was used but it's like you break it you bought it
That's it. You know, there's no
Yeah
It's very true. If I do end up getting this Lemure though
I'll do a review for it on last as well
But I think you know, I don't know that so I was kind of leaning towards NUC or a laptop because a NUC
I could also just pick up and bring to the studio
Yeah, the bonobo would just be too heavy for him. You know, that's the nice thing about this
Yes, it's half the weight of the bonobo
Well, and I guess you get him a proper like a good laptop bag
I mean, you know real nice and padded and all that that's got good reinforce reinforcement there
I mean, he'd probably be fine with that before I pull the trigger
I'd like to hear the audience if from the audience if any of you picked up like any of these more recent Chromebooks and had a
Just the Chromebook seems like a bad way to go because it's so easy to wipe them
But I would I would like to hear the audience's route. I'm leaning towards the system 76 a
Because I'd like to hear the audience's route
I'm leaning towards the system 76 a because I'd like if I'm gonna spend the money
I'd like it to go towards the Linux ecosystem B
I don't want to have to ever hassle with it when I reload and see I like system 76
Yeah, yeah, they have the meerkat too. But so I don't think it'll be I don't know if it'll be shipping in time
It's gonna be tight because this doesn't ship until
Like April something so it's really and his birth his birthday is like on the 14th
So it's really gonna be a tight if I give I can pull it off
but
Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, it might yeah
Yeah, Colonel Linux you you wanted to point out the packing it around something that a dad has to factor
Well, no, I've just yeah, it's so you're going to the studio. He's coming with dad. You're gonna get some work done
Can you imagine when he's like dad? Can I bring my computer and you're like no problem, son
Let me disassemble the LCD and the computer and grab a keyboard and a mouse and put it all into it
No, just get the Lamar that makes more sense
I actually know he held it. Yeah, he really
By the time you're done putting a solid state in that in that bad in that bad guy and you're buying him
You know decent keyboard and mouse and you buy the LCD you're probably into it for close to what the Lamar would be anyway
Yeah, I'll put you I'll put pledge a couple bucks towards getting Linux or getting Dylan off the apple juice
Yeah, I think having a solid
solid solid
Laptop that actually runs correctly the first time would be right
Yeah
Yeah, I think it's pronounced lemur
Name Earth lemur. Yeah rotten corpse tells me that somebody from Kansas Linux fest joined us towards the end of the show here
Is that true?
Yep, that's me. Well, hey Ryan. Hey Ryan, you know what? I'd love to talk to you. Why don't we do that here?
Why don't I take a I'll take a quick break and then we'll chat a little bit
So I'll let you guys know what I decided to do with Dylan's laptop
and then I'll give you a kind of a review of whatever I end up getting and how the whole deployment goes and
His reaction to I mean he's played with Linux before on I've had it on a Chromebook for him for a little bit
But it always ends up going the wrong way out
I also had it on an old HP laptop, but it keeps dying
So every time every machine I've given him Linux on it's kind of been a little bit of a rocky ride
And I don't think he's blamed Linux, but it's because dad keeps giving it on hardware
That's like my secondary hand-me-downs and right and so the end-all experiences
it's to him these computers are things that work for a few days until the hardware craps out on them and
So this next time around it's like for his birthday and it's like, okay
Let's get him on his own computer and we'll see what happens. So I'll update you guys in the future
Well, I think if you also have it pre-loaded with all his favorite stuff, you know, minecraft set up and ready to go
I mean it because it's a birthday experience. I think that adds to the wow. This is awesome. Dad. Yeah
Yeah, yeah
The mirror cat the mirror cat comes out on the 26th that might be a route to go to but see then I have to do
All the disconnecting and reconnecting every time
Unless there was like a perfect but not travel case he could bring now go laptop. Yeah, I think so
Hey Matt before we talk a little bit about Kansas Linux Fest, which I'm excited to hear about this new Linux Fest
First year they did it. Let's mention Linux Academy. This would be this will be like Dylan's like 8th birthday present, right?
I'll get him like a like a year of Linux Academy and then then he'll really be off to the races
But you don't have to wait you can start right now
We're going to Linux Academy comm slash unplugged get our special 33 percent discount
Linux Academy is a great resource for our audience
perfect for you guys built by Linux and open source enthusiasts and educators developers and system administrators and
Linux Academy has a whole bunch of courseware and they're constantly improving that courseware
Retroactively and also adding new courseware. It's a really nice system
So when something brand new comes out in the Linux sphere that you need to learn about, you know
Linux Academy is on top of it. I've since they've been a sponsor
I've really watched them jump on top of great new technologies and not just like have courseware on it
But truly deep understanding course with it when you're done
You're really gonna walk away feeling knowledgeable about it because they have real world scenario labs
They have virtual machines that spin up you choose from seven plus Linux distributions
You go through the course where you actually work with the actual technology
You just SSH in from your desktop and start working on the rig
It's really a nice experience. And if you use like, you know SSH with a little compression or something like that
It's really fast. It's I mean we all know that right but they know that so they would they make it
So that way their lab server spin up give you a public IP a login to him you set up the stuff
It's really cool
And I think one of the things that you know, I've struggled with when I was an IT
It's not really an issue for me anymore
But there are sometimes like branches of technology that all of a sudden you just find yourself falling back into
Oh now all of a sudden I have to support
Something that connects to Amazon s3 or something that uses Amazon simple DNS or simple mailing service
I have no idea how to do that. Well Linux Academy's got your back you get access to all of the coursework
So if all of a sudden you find yourself having to worry about that
They got you covered or if you want to make sure your resume just looks a little bit better
They got you covered. In fact, I've been getting notes from Anthony over there about some of the amazing things
They have coming up like on April 16th. They're gonna have a big content release and you can watch it live 9 p.m
Central April 16th, that's really cool
but they've also from CompTIA been approved for quality content requirements meaning that you can go take the
LPIC1 and Linux plus exams after you've taken the courseware Linux Academy and get your certification and you're done. You're done
By going to Linux Academy comm slash unplugged you get started right now
They've got courseware on Python Ruby Android development back up like using our sync. I mean the whole spectrum
It's everything and when you get to choose from seven plus Linux distributions
You get to download the content offline and listen like a podcast
You can learn on the go and be productive while you're doing stuff. It's just a great solution for the people that have time constraints
or free time Linux Academy comm slash
Unplugged go check it out
All right. Well Orion. Thanks for joining us sort of last minute. I suppose and
Tell it tell me about like what you did at Kansas Linux Fest and how it was
Okay. Well, I was one of the original two organizers for Kansas Linux Fest great and
We spent kind of the whole year planning it. I've been living in Kansas for two years
I got a job as a Linux systems administrator over here and I want to thank you
I'm actually kind of nervous talking to you because
I was really getting into Linux and then I found your show
Really has been with me my entire journey, you know
of going from being somebody who knew very little about Linux and open-source software to being a big advocate now and
Putting together events like Kansas Linux Fest. Well, what what made you crazy enough to try to do a Linux fest?
I mean that's pretty ambitious
well, actually I was just it came from I was pissed actually because I
got into town and
in I live in Lawrence, Kansas, which
is
at home to the University of Kansas and
There was no
Active Linux user group in town and that drove me crazy
I could find like six web pages of old Linux user groups that had died out, but I I was like
Where am I gonna go?
I'm this geeky guy and I want to talk to geeky people who love open source
And so I decided to just start my own Linux user group
about the same time I met this guy Mike DuPont and he is brilliant and he was
actually putting
Open Kansas
It's open Kansas dot us. Yeah, it's a group that is in Kansas. It's promoting open knowledge
open source software
and and Linux and
He said hey, I've been thinking about putting together an open source conference
And you know you're head of the Linux Lawrence Linux user group. Do you want to help me out?
And I was like, yes, of course I do
The funny thing was we really only expected about three people to show up 20 20 you say
30 or 30 to 30 we expect that many people we thought yeah
We'd have our speakers and then maybe an additional 10 or 20 people we ended up we counted it up after the event
We ended up getting around 200 people
So we really that really shattered our expectations. That's great
Yeah, not to mention we we had Rackspace who came on as a sponsor
We had we had many local places Cal testing they do end-of-year
Assessment software for like student testing for a whole bunch of states
We had I don't want to leave anybody out
But I know I'm going to we had our local one of our local ISPs. We had
Unfortunately, we some people kind of didn't get on board until it was too late
So we didn't really have time to put things together with them
fortunately Linux Pro magazine came on and they they provided a whole bunch of
their magazines for free cool and
Actually, it's funny because
You talked about Linux Academy and they're actually based out of Lee's summit
Which is right next to Kansas City and we're right on that east side of Kansas where the fest was at
And so we asked them to come
Unfortunately, I didn't realize they were that close until a couple weeks before the event
So they said no, we're not gonna make it this year, but we'll we'll be there next year cool
So I'm gonna try and hold them to that
but we had a lot of
Interest from people like Ricky Endsley if you guys know about her she's from Lawrence and she's actually part of what inspired me
to start the Linux Lawrence Linux user group here in Kansas because I went to Linux con 2013
which was in New Orleans and
While I was down there I ran into her as well as three other people from Lawrence and I'd never met them before I said
Why did it take us coming down to New Orleans to meet and?
And network like this. I said we need to do something back home
And and so that's where that's where this effort came from. So and you're crazy enough to do it again next year. It sounds like
Absolutely. I actually I'm so glad that you said that because you our biggest sponsor
Was individuals walking in the door. We made over two thousand dollars from individual sponsors coming in and making donations
That's great
And I think you know, I like to watch these things because I've noticed these the even this actually some of the the events
You know when there are a couple of hundred people are really really perfect
That's a sweet spot where the crowd's small enough that everybody's really nice to each other because they keep bumping into each other and you
know, you actually start conversations and
Some actual things can happen in in communities. It's really neat
The and the energy level I just want to say the energy level was so high and the engagement was so
So high and the engagement was so high. I've never seen that I've been quite a few open source
That's at this point. Yeah. Yeah, and we had big speakers, you know, we had the one of the guys over at twitter's open source
I don't remember exactly what it is or open source outreach group or whatever
And we had a guy from oracle come in and give and give a talk about you know
kind of what they're doing in open source and
Uh, we just had so many awesome speakers and i'd if you guys can you know
I I tried to put as much as I could on my blog
Which I posted in the chat and i'll post it again
Uh it but and maybe we can get it in the show notes if you put putting that in
I tried to put as
Awesome. Well, I tried to put as much as I could in there about who was there and and what we did
And it was just it was just super awesome. And it's really it's really great because it's building
Communities on top of the community that we that we built there
Uh, there were the wichita, which is a pretty big city here in in kansas
There were there was a guy who stood up at the beginning and he said i'm so happy you put this together. I'm the
president of our linux user group down in wichita
Wichita and he said, you know, and he kind of went through his whole spiel about what they were doing
And then another guy stood up and he said i'm president of a linux user group down in wichita, too
And I had no idea. There was another one in town
We need to get together and do some stuff
And so it was a lot of interactions like that that really I think
Built the community and we had an after party where unfortunately I got really really drunk. So I don't remember all of it
but the
But there was a point when uh, one guy was telling me he says i've been living in a bubble
He's like I didn't know there were all these people around me. Yep, who were interested in the same thing
Yeah
And you discover that when you show up and you like you or like around here if you go to meetup.com
You discover that's the same thing. Uh
Ryan a coffee has a
Has a coffee has a question for you. Go ahead
uh akati
Akotai akatis. Yeah, I was just wondering what was your cost of entry this year?
Oh boy, um, well a lot of it came out of pocket and I really want to thank mike
He's such a phenomenal guy. I think he spent over a thousand dollars just out of pocket costs
Of he might have meant entry to the fest
Oh, there was no one no no cost of entry
You didn't have to sign up you could just so we could keep track of who was who was there?
But uh, that's actually why don't we don't have firm numbers. Um, right, right
Yeah, you we we we didn't want to prevent anybody from coming just because they didn't sign up or they didn't have the money
And so we we told everybody come in we're completely open
um, and and so there was no cost of entry only if you wanted to donate and and if you donated we had
Some swag to give you you know, just for a little bit of love and giving back and so
Uh, but yeah, just going back to that, you know, definitely want to thank mike. He put so much, you know
He was my other organizer
Yeah, we tried to pull as many people in but I don't think many people took us seriously
Until like a week before the conference started. Yeah
And then people started we had we had all sorts of companies reaching out to us at that point
And we had a couple of speakers saying like I want a part of it and at that point it was really hard to get
Yeah, anybody else fit in but yeah, i'm hoping that
Because we've had so many people reach out to us that next year we'll be able to incorporate more speakers and more
Sponsors and and I would say, you know as it gets like, you know, you as you get to them
I would definitely go to that next year. Yeah
Yeah, let's let people know if you get to the month or two point out
You know, we can start helping spread the words people can make plans to attend
Well awesome and uh chris, uh, we'd love to fly you down and have you be a part of the event. Oh, okay
Okay, sure, uh, wow, maybe you never know i'm not joking. You never know. This is a good time
You never know. Maybe kansas city is growing. Yeah, maybe I will
Fibers down there just have to uh hit me up a little while beforehand next next year and uh,
You just never know because I do want to turn more
Can I can I plug a couple things real quick? Yeah, sure
So that all right
So for those of you who feel like you're in a bubble out in the middle of the midwest and missouri kansas or nebraska
Um, feel free to check out kansas
uh kansaslinuxfest.us or openkansas.us
Or just reach out to me, uh
Uh, and i'll put i'll try to give my information to chris
um or follow me on twitter ryanleecypes and just
I try to post as much as I can about what's going on in the midwest as far as linux open source is concerned
And i'd love to help anybody who feels like they're they're a lonely geek
Find a community here in the midwest to be a part of and contribute to that's great
Yeah, and if you feel like I know that feeling and uh, it's not true. There are others out there. You can find them
You're not alone. You're not alone. Yeah
All right, very good. So I think we'll wrap it there. I had a discussion piece around so good to know
I feel so much better now. I had a discussion piece around distribution coverage
But you know, I can bump that to a future episode because I liked getting some coverage there
The kansas linux fest. I just love these linux fest. There's so much fun
So also i'd like to point out that I contribute to evolve os and it hasn't gotten some play on here really that much
Yet chris, you're right. You're right. If you could
I can hook you up with all the developers and and we can talk about all right
You know what?
We should we should probably get an evolve os dev on the show here and talk to him and see what's up because you're right
It is something we have not given a lot of time to which was the topic of our discussion piece
Uh, and that's a little teaser I guess, you know
I'll try to remember to put it in next week's episode because it's you know
We're getting boy. I don't know if we want to start another 20 minute conversation at this point in the show matt
You know what? I mean like I feel like we should probably save it for next week
But it might be worthwhile I guess maybe i'll here i'll tease the topic
And then maybe you can join us next week and oh this we should do this more often actually now
I think about it. I should why don't I always do this?
Uh, okay, so because I don't always know what the topic's gonna be. That's why yeah, I know my I know that
Uh, I want to talk next week about the amount of coverage. We've given to certain distributions, uh,
specifically arch and fedora and ubuntu in comparison to other distributions like evolve os
mandriva
mint and open susa and uh part of it is because my sense and uh
The production staff sense and matt's sense of where the interest lies in the audience part of that is our own internal
Interest and part of that is the relevance that we saw those distributions to have
All of those factor into what we cover, but I think it's always worth reevaluating that because things change over time
And uh, that would be a discussion i'd like to have next week
Um not to do too much navel gazing
But really to kind of say what what are things that are truly distinguishing about these distributions that deserve our attention
What should we be focusing on and are we focusing too much on the wrong thing?
Uh, so that's a conversation i'd like to have with our lug next week an episode 86 of linux unplugged
So, uh join us we do the show live over at jblive.tv on tuesdays
at specific time 2 p.m
But if you go to jupiter broadcasting.com slash calendar, you can get that converted to your local time zone. We've got robots
And the only thing they do is patiently wait
To convert that but I pay them in freaking bitcoin by the hour
So go over to jupiter broadcasting.com slash calendar. You can add to your own calendar
Also send us your feedback go over to jupiter broadcasting.com slash contact and then you might not have known about this
But we have a sub reddit
Who knew right linuxactionshow.reddit.com makes this show better submit topic ideas
There's feedback threads and usually unplug doesn't get much love because you guys are apparently just not very
Very talkative about linux unplugged in there, but there is well actually last week
We got it quite a bit
But there is a discussion thread in there for every episode of linux unplugged
And uh also stories and apps and all kinds of stuff that get linked there make their way into this show and linux unplugged
Love for life. That's right. That's right. Uh, so thanks everybody for being here. Thanks to the mumble room matt
Have yourself a great week. I saw that there's a new episode of married and amused out which yeah
After a bit of a hiatus, we're back
Uh, basically we had a look forward to that a little bit of a home illness kind of thing going on there for a while
But we're back and it happened. Yeah, it happens and it looks like a good game looked funny, too
I I watched a little bit of the intro and it had me laughing
Yeah, it was a lot of fun. Yeah, uh, and anywhere you want to send folks throughout the week
Uh as always, um, if you want to just kind of keep up in general
Uh articles to video games to whatnot, uh, matthartley.com subscribe in any one of the uh options available email to social media
That's just put all in one spot. That's a great idea. Yeah. All right, everybody
Well, thanks for tuning this week's episode of linux unplugged. See you right back here next tuesday
So
Yeah, that's true it's better than married and abused that would not be a good show yeah, that's a that's a private show
That's usually when it's i'm in the doghouse and I did something stupid married and abused
All right, well that was a fun show thanks you guys
Uh, we uh, we had a light turn out during the pre-show and then it really filled out during the show, which is awesome
And ryan, thanks for uh, making it in here at the end. We gave a little we had a little chat about uh,
Kansas linux fest towards the top and I think I got your blog post already in the show notes
Oh, that's awesome. That's awesome. I'm, sorry. I missed it
I'm i'm actually at work and I thought man. I really need to get in here and plug kansas linux fest
You did good. He's forgotten about it. Good work. It was good work. You jumped on it. It was nice
Uh, yeah. All right, jbtitles.com. Let's boat this sucker. Let's boat it up boat boat a boat a boat it up
So yeah, have you guys noticed that uh, since the day?
It was announced that bq may have uh gpl compliance issues poppy hasn't showed up. Hmm coincidence
I think not. I think um poppy's recording another show this evening. I'm sorry
It's all right. I I tease I tease but come on wimpy. It's a much better conspiracy
Yeah, it's yeah, we gotta keep up our blame so we can
Yeah, you know what we ought to do is we ought to live stream, you know
We should do we should live stream the show he's doing right now. So that way we could uh boost their audience for them
Here's my question. Can I ask a question?
This is for ubuntu people who might be listening to this
where is
My phone for north america. That's what I want to know. I know i'll buy one
I just I just need you guys to you know, get that get that to me
Yeah, I think i'm getting I would totally say the same thing. I think i'm getting an s6
I mean, I might get the mules or whatever it is when it comes out, but I think i'm getting the s6
Well, I want that myzu phone the mx. Yeah. Yeah myzu. That's what it is. Yeah
But it doesn't have the uh, I guess it doesn't have the bands for the us. So what do you guys so, uh,
So there's there's several different suggestions these days to uh, sort of get the entire last catalog online
The uh tried and true one would be archive.org. Of course their sync thing is also uh possible. Um,
And uh also get annex could be a possibility
So, uh, do you guys have any thoughts of like a way to do a massive online archive?
Well, I have one idea although it's a little retro you get yourself these red envelopes yeah, I know and then you mail out these cd's
Charge i'll just put them on disk and i'll just you can do it on subscription 50 bucks for it. Yeah, that's a good idea
um, I have uh something that sort of plays into the education thing my my school district is
like
extremely
anti
Unix, especially lately
Like like they want nothing to do with anything. That's not windows like a few years ago
All of the school websites were like powered by wordpress on apache servers
and
On like linux apache servers and now they're all running on iis servers and they're all static web pages
Which is terrible in the first place. I have no idea why they're doing that
but and then and then like also the
um
Like we had we have like several hundred max
That used to be like like, you know, just like a couple months ago. They were all running like mavericks or whatever and
Then the school district just just decided that they didn't want it to be running mavericks anymore
So they blew all of them away and installed windows 7 on them
Um, nice. Oh, isn't that? Oh, I hope they're using group policy and active directory. Oh, I hope they are
and the other thing is
none of the
They the group policy they have set up does not like it doesn't force them to install updates
And none of the teachers bother doing it
So every computer in our school is still vulnerable to that exploit that was talked about on on coder radio
Oh good a few months ago. That's fantastic. So before everybody runs off. I kind of wanted to talk about that and just elaborate
but i'll make it really brief the
The place that changes guys is is not so much with the teacher itself
But with the the staff, you know
The tech staff of like the school or or even at the board the school board here in lawrence
You know, we had to go we tried to go through the board of education or not the board of education
But the school board uh to try and get you know some linux machines into school and get open document
You know formats being used
And I work for the library system here at the at the regional level
And you know when we want to get something into a library
A lot of it comes down to convincing
You know the other tech guys and then ultimately also showing how it saves money and how it you know
Is is a better solution and it can be done, but it has to be done from that point of view
Because you're trying to convince people who are like, why can't we just stick with what we have?
No
the thing is though I totally get that it's it it it is more with the
administration that that has to change because like my my uh, my
Teacher like the teacher in my school that does all the computer stuff
Uh, he actually instructed me to install ubuntu on one computer
Just because he wanted to mess with it and try it out
The first time that someone like a higher up from the it department came in the room and noticed ubuntu running on that computer
They they got like super pissy and they were like, you know, that computer should be running windows 7 and
Like the computer was cold and that's the thing the computer was too old to actually run windows 7
All it could run was windows xp. And so I had installed ubuntu on it and and the the it administrator did not like that
Oh boy, colton you you change the network one funeral at a time
That's that's true